Hub data reporting changes (#66)
uyuni-project/uyuni-rfc: accepted/00000-hub-reporting.md

Also PostgreSQL seems to be accepted in most Reporting tools as data source, while NoSQL databases
are not supported, or only via standard DBMS modules. Native support was rarely available.

### The Database
The main database is a PostgresDB in the hub system (but in the future it will be possible to 
use also an external db): it stores all the information collected from all the server, and eventually
aggregates them. Other databases with the same schema are also present in all the server, to collect 
information for that system.

> The hub database needs to be made available on the network to either connect in a secure way (using the SSL

Reviewer: I think not only the hub DB needs to be made accessible from the outside. I also every reporting DBs for the single server need that. At least if we want to syncronize the data using JDBC connections.

Author: right, tried to rephrase it

Data which belong to the traditional stack only (like osad status) should not be made available in the
reporting database as the traditional stack will be deprecated soon.

## Installation
The reporting tools will be installed by default; all the upgrade to a newer version, will install the 
reporting tools as well.

We provide a new package installed in the hub system:
- to setup the reporting DB schema,
- to setup and manage the reporting database,
- to setup and manage DBs in all Uyuni Server.

The management tools should support:
- Database setup and schema initialization
- Database schema migration

> - Simple User management. The default setup will create two users:

Reviewer 2: Do we want this management feature to allow creating both read-only and read-write users or only the former?

Author: I haven't a strong opinion on that, but if I need to choose I would say both read-only and read-write, in order to provide all the users required by the reporting tool

Reviewer: I think we should automatically create only the read/write user as we need it directly.
The hub should create his own user when connecting to the Server DB. We described it below.
We should document how to create a user for a reporting tool and the admin decide if he do this on the single server or the hub or both/all.
What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Yes indeed makes sense to leave the final user full control on their accounts, so +1 also for me.

Author: Changed this section and add more information below regarding how to use data collected in a reporting tool and documentation

  * a Read/Write user, to manage the database and write the data from the main Uyuni Database into the Reporting DB. This user and the DB connection parameters are written into `/etc/rhn/rhn.conf` similar to the default DB options.
  * a Read-Only user, used by the reporting tools for gathering information from the hub database.

> The package will also setup a taskomatic job to retrieve informations from all the other SUSE Manager Server

Reviewer 2: Formatting stuff: I think we need an empty line here as this two paragraphs are not separated from the list in the preview I see at the moment.

database.
All the other information required (e.g. Uyuni Server info) will be retrieved by already existing configuration.

### Account management on the Hub for the Reporting Databases of the managed Servers

> During installtion, hub should create its own user on the Reporting Databases of the single Servers.

Reviewer 2: Just to verify that I have understood this correctly, this is an additional users, created by the hub server on each servers in addition to the two default one mentioned in the paragraph above. And this is read only as well, I guess, since the hub does not need to change the data. I also would guess that the "Simple User management" tool mentioned above should not alter this hub account in any way, otherwise the sync will break.

Author: I tried to add more info but yes, probably we should rephrase the user part at all and make it more clear

Data which belong to the traditional stack only (like osad status) should not be made available in the
reporting database as the traditional stack will be deprecated soon.

# Installation
The reporting tools will be installed by default; all the upgrade to a newer version, will install the 
reporting tools as well.

We provide a new package installed in the hub system:
- to setup the reporting DB schema,
- to setup and manage the reporting database,

> - to setup and manage DBs in all Uyuni Server.

Reviewer: Is this only for the Hub ? I think this is generic as we try to keep the reportig DB on a single server compatible with the reporting DB on the Hub.

The package will also setup a taskomatic job to retrieve informations from all the other SUSE Manager Server
database.
All the other information required (e.g. Uyuni Server info) will be retrieved by already existing configuration.

## Database management: setup and user management

### Uyuni Hub
On the hub side, the management tools should support:
- Database setup and schema initialization
- Database schema migration
- Simple User management. The default setup will create a Read/Write user, to manage the database and write the data from into the Reporting DB. This user and the DB connection parameters are written into `/etc/rhn/rhn.conf` similar to the default DB options.

### Uyuni Server
On the server side, during installation, hub should create its own read-only user on the Reporting Databases of the single Servers. 
This user is used by the hub to read data from the Uyuni Server DB.
As the Servers are managed with salt, we will write a state to create an account.
The username and password are generated on the Hub and provided as pillar data.
On the server the state take care of the existance of the account and the Hub can store the parameters

> in its database under the system entry. 

Reviewer: Maybe we should better state, that Hub and Single Server is the same and only name real differences?

Author: Same as above, I ll try to rephrase it to made more clear the single-server scenario

# Workflow

## Uyuni Server: retrieve and organize Data

On an Uyuni Server a taskomatic job is responsible to fetch and prepare the data from the main Uyuni
Database and insert them into the Reporting Database. The infomation will be stored in a local DB and
collected by Uyuni Hub.

> The job should be written in a way, that Uyuni Hub and Reporting Database could be on different Hosts.

Reviewer: The Bug is always on a different server. 
```suggestion
The job should be written in a way, that the Reporting Database could be on different Host.
```
